So which plan is better ICICI LB Elevat and
Aditya Birla Activ Max now both these
plans come from brands that Indians
already trust with their money on one hand
ICICI back by the ICICI legacy is one of
India's biggest financial institutions on the
other hand Aditya Birla Health
Insurance from the Aditya Birla Group one
of India's strongest and most
respected business houses.  But how do these
titans compare in their health insurance
offerings and their track record is what we're
going to understand in today's
video.  Using my 20 years of
experience and deep data back research
from ILM Research.  I will break down
both these plans clearly for everything that
matters.
Mahavir Chopra [Music] The Founder and Chief
Executive Officer of Beshak.org.
[Music]
Now here's what we'll be covering in this
video.  One a quick comparison of all the
unique features and the fine print in those
unique features.  To give a quick roll call of all the
core benefits, the waiting periods and the
fine print within them.  Three: A detailed
look at the real-world service experience,
starting with customer service and, most
importantly, the claims experience.  Then a
quick comparison of the pricing and finally,
we will understand how these plans are
rated by ILM Research.  ILM Research is
India's only independent insurance
ratings that through Grip Research gives one
single data back rating for all insurance
plans.  Making it is to compare all the
products available in the market.  Now One
Thing Before We Move Ahead in This Video.
Look, health insurance is full of terms
and conditions, legal and medical charges.  Well
I try to keep it easy for you to
understand at any point if you feel
confused and want to have a personalized
one to one consultation with industry
experts.  You can always consult India's
top 5% insurance experts.  Only on of
course.  Ororg for completely completely
free.  Mind you these are experts.  These are
not called set are freshers.  These are people with
real experience, real understanding,
real knowledge.  Click on the link in the
description to book a free consultation.
So, moving on to the USP of both the
plans.  What we will do is that first we
will take the unique USP of both these
plans.  In which the meaning is present in one of the two and
not in the other.  And then after that we will
take comparable USPs.  Ok?  So first of all
we are taking ICICI Elevate.
Basically the most popular and the most
advertised basically USB is the unlimited sum
insured option in ICICI LAD.  Meaning, there is an option of Rs 10 lakh
, there is an option of Rs 20 lakh, there is an option of Rs 50 lakh.
Similarly, if you are
taking the policy online then you
can take unlimited sum insured in the dropdown.  This means that no matter
how many claims you receive, you
can claim them up to an unlimited sum for your
lifetime because a health insurance is
lifetime covered.  So that is the USP that is
available in ICICI
Elevate it is not available with Aditya
Birla.  The maximum cover shown here in Aditya Birla is
₹2 crore.  You
cannot take sum insured above ₹2 crore
in Aditya Birla.  Next is the World Wide
Cover add on.  It is available in ICICI Almard.
Where basically the normal health
insurance
covers hospitalization only in India.  If you want to
cover outside hospitalization, then
you have to take such an add-on.  After that you
can also take treatment outside.  It
covers both emergency and plant treatments.  If you had gone abroad and
needed treatment there or
you are in India and you have some
disease for which you
need treatment in Singapore, UK or anywhere else, that is also
covered.  It has some terms.   I will
tell you quickly.  The first term has a
two-year waiting period.
You cannot make a claim just like you take this policy.  You
can do it after 2 years.  In this,
you can also do it for one year by giving some add-on money.
Available only in cashless mode.
Cashless is a good thing.  But the insurance company has
basically restricted you in the network.
You will
not be able to go to any hospital and make a claim.  You have to
check their network first.  You will have to go there and
get treatment.  So there may be
some problem in emergency cases.  So understand this.
Next is that in the
emergency cases that I talked about,
a limitation has been put that if you are travelling
abroad, then the trip should be less than 45 days.
And all the trips in a
year should be less than 90 days only then you will
get cover in this.  If you are
travelling for a longer period then that
risk will not be covered.  Right?  So that is these are the
two conditions not the two conditions but
two benefits that are there with ICIC but not there
with ah Aditya Birla Active One Max.
Now we will look at one feature that Active One
Max has but ICIC which is the sum insured
multiplier add on.  So what is the sum insured
multiplier add on,
if normally your policy is for one year.  You
pay a premium for one year.  But you
can also take a 3 years policy or a 5 years policy by paying advance premium basically.
If you have taken a policy for 3 years, 5 years or
2 years, then the
sum insured for one year will remain the
same.  For example, if you take a sum insured of Rs 10 lakh, it will remain Rs
10 lakh only.  Let's say
in a particular year you want to use more than
10 lakh because of a certain
hospitalization.
You can prepay your sum insured for the previous and next year.
So suppose you have
taken a policy for 3 years,
you have a cover of 10 lakhs by paying premium for 3 years,
so 10 lakhs, 10 lakhs, 10 lakhs, 30 lakhs,
you can use 30 lakhs in the first year,
right, what is it basically means, you
can pool the sum insured for next 2 years as well and use it in this year, this is the
benefit, now moving on to other USPs
which are comparable, it will be a bit fun because it is there
in both, so let us understand quickly, the
first one is the wellness program, so the
wellness program is available in ICI Alambavet,
in this basically if you
do some specific activities, for which
you will get guidance in their app, then
you can reduce your premium by 30% at the
time of renewal.  So why does it
create an insurance company?  The insurance
company makes it so that the insurance
company is trying to make you healthy.  If
you are not hospitalized,
you will also benefit.  The insurance company
also benefits.  So this is done for that.
Basically wellness points are given.
That can be redeemed as 30% discount
on renewal premium.  Right?  Adult
for floater policies at 15% is what is mentioned here.
Aditya Birla is a little
ahead in wellness programs.  Wellness is a major feature
in Aditya Birla's normal policies.
But in Active and Max I will tell you what it is.  By doing
health returns, they
give you a feature that they also advertise a lot
through health management programs.  What happens in this is
basically that similarly compared to ICICI, as
I said, here also if you
follow some activities then you can get
full rebate of your premium up to 100%.  This
means you will
not have to pay the premium for the next year.  If you do whatever
Aditya Birla tells you.
For example, you have to walk 10,000 steps.
300 calories have to be burnt in one session.  He has
some assessments of his own which
he has to complete.  Have to do a 30 minute gym
session.  If
you do such activities consistently throughout the year, then
you can get up to 100% of your renewal premium in the debit.  So
you will not have to pay that premium.
This is the best thing.  Right?  That means
I am saying that if I am healthy
then why should I pay premium?  Compare to
someone or I follow healthy practices.
Someone is not following healthy
practices.  Why should I pay the same
premium as the person who is not following
healthy practices?  This is the answer to that.
If I Follow Healthy Practices, the
Insurance Company Will Give Me a Rebate.
Next is basically a feature which is called
Infinite Care.  This is an add-on that
is available in both.  What does add on mean?   I will
tell you quickly.  The sum insured you normally
take is limited.
Right?  When we think of taking sum insured,
we do so with the thought that whatever
our future expenses are, they should be on the hospital bill.
But when we take it,
we know in the back of our mind that it could be even
more than this.  Right?  It means that medical
science has progressed a lot now or
you have got such diseases which we were
not aware of, like it happened during the time of Covid that
we did not know what kind of disease had come.  What will you do if such a
disease occurs and the sum insured gets
limited?  Right?
For that, there is an unlimited add-on which has been
launched by the insurance companies.
This is available in both plans.  Basically
what happens in this is that you can make one claim
for unlimited sum insured during the lifetime of your policy.
So that your late sum insured is 10 lakh or
20 lakh.  You will write that your claim came to 1 crore,
2 crore, 5 crore, 10 crore, 100 crore, anything.  The
insurance company is saying that there is
no limitation, you can claim unlimitedly.
In this we quickly see that there is
something specific that needs to be understood.
Basically Aditya Birla has put a note in the
research team which is basically that you need to
opt in the first two years.  I
think this will be applicable for ICICI
also.  You have to opt in the first two years.
After that you definitely cannot opt ​​for it.  It is
not that you
can choose it anytime.  So that is
basically infinite care called in ICI
Lamb and unlimited care called in Aditya
Birla.  Now Moving On To Bonus.  So let us understand whether the bonus is
basically a loyalty bonus or a no claim
bonus.  So
typically ICICI Lo LBA gives regular inbuilt
bonus which is 20% in the first
year and it keeps accumulating to 100%
every year till 100% right and this is not linked to the claim,
basically whether you claim or not, they will give
you this additional loyalty bonus but if you
take the add on that they offer then your sum
insured will increase by 100% every year and there is
no maximum accumulation, meaning if
you live for 50 years then your sum
insured will keep increasing every year, so this is
a great add on,
specifically, as we discussed earlier that the sum
insured can fall, this solves that problem.
Aditya Birla also gives
bonus and it is again a guaranteed bonus.  But let me
tell you what the conditions are.   The
inbuilt cap is increase by 1%
every year. The maximum cap is 500%, which means
your sum insured will not increase more than five times,
up to
a maximum of Rs 3 crore in Aditya Burla's case.  Meaning you have a maximum of Rs 3 crore, you can
never go above that.
Ok?  That is the comparison between bonuses.
Next is durable medical equipment.
Currently, in normal health insurance,
external
medical equipment are not covered.
But in both the plans,
you are basically getting an add-on in which
you
can take additional cover for durable medical equipment.
I will tell you what the conditions are.  So basically it is an add on.   The
first thing is this.  Second is that covered up
to 5 lacs and up to 5 lacs in case of
ICICI. Elevat in case of Aditya Bill is covered
up to 5 lacs and up to 5 lacs whichever is
lower.  So this is what it is.  Let me
also tell you what is basically covered in this.
Ventilator, wheelchair, infusion
pump, oxygen concentrator, all these things are
basically covered.  So typically health
insurance does not cover it.  Now moving
on to the core benefits of this plan.
What are core benefits?  The
benefits that contribute the largest amounts to the hospital bill are the ones that are
very important to understand.  Quickly 1 2 3 4 5 There are six
core benefits that we will cover right now.   Will
cover it quickly.  First,
in the case of ICICI LBARD, there is a single private AC room.
If you want any room category then
you can get only single private AC room.
You cannot take higher room
in default option.  If you pay additional premium
then they upgrade you and
put you in any room so that you can
choose any room.  Typically a single
private AC room is a decent room.  So it is
not a big problem.  Only problem comes when there is
no away non
availability of that room and you have to
upgrade.  Right?  If you downgrade then there will be
no problem.  In the case of Aditya
Birla, this problem does not exist.  They give you an
any room option.  Whenever you are taking Aditya Birla
plan, then basically you have the
option of any room in this plan.  Ok
?  Pre and post hospitalization 90 days
and 180 days in case of ICI lumbar.  90 days
and 180 days same in case of Aditya Birla.
Day Care Treatments All day care treatments are
covered in both Aditya Birla and ICI
Lamb Elevate.  Next is domiciliary
treatment.  Aditya Birla
covers all illnesses up to SI.  In case
of ICI lamb de put a 17 illnesses ka
exclus.  Meaning he is saying that I will
give you cover for domestic treatment but will
not give it for these 17 diseases.
Examples of this are given here.  I have edema
, diabetes and hypertension.
You cannot get treatment at home for these diseases.
Right?  This is what you have
to understand.  Aditya Birla has
not put any such condition.  Both modern treatment
and organ donor treatment are
covered without any limits.
This normally happens in comprehensive cover.
So that is what they are also
giving.  Moving On To Good To Have
Benefits.  Good to have benefits include one,
two, three benefits.  Fourth is durable
medical equipment cover, we have already taken it.
So three will cover that.  So
consumables cover is basically that cover
where non-medical expenses which
a hospital normally charges but the
insurance company does not pay are covered.
An insurance company gives you an additional add-
on through which those non-medical
expenses will also be covered so that whatever
hospital bill you are getting can be paid completely.
Consumable bills cover is
available as an add-on in ICICI LBA. 68
listed non-medical items like masks and
gloves can be covered up to SI sum insured.
Basically if you take add-on, Aditya
Birla also provides this, it covers 146 listed non-
medical items but it is
not an add-on, it is inbuilt into the
policy.  So you have to do it by taking additional premium.
Its premium is not very high.  It is
written here so I will tell you.
In ICICI number, you have to pay ₹648 extra
for this cover.  So that
is the difference.  Next is Restoration Benefit.   Let me
quickly explain what the difference is.   It
is inbuilt in both.  You don't have to take add-ons.
Refills Unlimited Times In Both The
Cases.  Applicable for all instances in both the
cases and triggers from second claim for
partial exhaustion in both the cases.  So
both have the exact same benefit of
restoration.  Next is maternity
expenses.
ICICI LBA Elevate is giving you maternity expenses but Aditya
Birla is not giving it to you.  This is an add-on
which is available in ICICI lambda elevate.
Basically, this cost covers delivery and
pre-order post retail.  In this
you can cover 10% of the SI maximum up to Rs 1 lakh.
Whatever sum is insured for you.  You
take the sum of Rs 5 lakh.  Sum insured is Rs 50,000, Rs 60 lakh, Rs 6 lakh,
thus
you can cover a maximum of Rs 1 lakh.  The waiting period is
2 years.  Immediate cover will not be
available.  You have to take a policy.  Have to wait for 2 years.
After that you
can claim the maternity cover.  Next comes the
temporary exclusions or waiting periods.   The
standard exclusions are the same.  There
is a 30 day waiting period in both cases.  For the
first year, not
every health insurance policy covers you for sickness in the first 30 days.  It
covers you only in case of accidents.  There is a second two-year
waiting period.  For specified analysis in both policies.
And the third is the PED
waiting period.  Whatever pre-existing diseases you have
when you buy the policy,
those diseases are
not covered for the first three years.
Understand customization in both cases.
What is customization?  In case of ICICI
LBA, you can extend the 3 years PED mentioned by me to
2 years and 1 year by
paying additional premium.  The second
customization is within the ICICI LBA itself.   This
is the Jump Start Rider for
approximately six
listed illnesses, you can reduce the waiting period from
3 years to 30 days.
You can be covered from 31 days.  Which
ones are enamels?  All these are chronic diseases
which occur commonly.  Asthma, diabetes,
hypertension, cholesterol, obesity and
angioplasty happen after one year.  In
case of Aditya Birla also this same add on
is available.  Basically for seven illnesses
which we talked about here, six illnesses.  Here
Pay is for Seven Illnesses.  The basic
difference that I see in this is that
Aditya Birla
also covers a disease called COPD.  Ah covers from Zero Days
from What I Understand?  It does not even have
a 30 day waiting period if you pay
extra premium.  So that is the difference
in terms of the PD waiting period
customization that is available.  Now there is one
more customization that is available in case
of specified diseases which is available
only in ICICI. The normal two year
waiting period can be reduced to one year
for specified diseases
if you are paying extra premium.
So these modifications are available.  So moving
on to customer service.  There is
no such public metric available for customer service.
So ILM Research does its own audits to
basically find out
how good an insurance company is at customer service.  There are
two things we will cover here.
Toll free and Twitter
ICICI is average in toll free and ICICI alarm is slow in Twitter,
right, it means if you have to
complain to ICICI and you complain on Twitter, then
you will get slow service in it.
Same thing for Aditya Birla, let's
see now.  In Aditya Birla's case,
response time on toll free average.  Meaning,
as good as they are, they are equally good
or as bad as they are bad.
Aditya Birla is coming to Twitter in a jiffy.  Meaning they are
very fast in their response.  It's
not just speed.  In this,
we also check the quality of response, basically ILM.
So Aditya Birla has performed very well
in our audits.
That is what needs to be
understood.  Next and the most important is
claims experience.
Why would we take health insurance without claims experience?
Right?  What we need to know is how an insurance
company performs in claims.
So there are one, two, three and four important
metrics in this which we will understand quickly.  This is a very
important mat trick.  We do
not compare the claim settlement ratio
because the claim settlement ratio does
not genuinely tell you this.  Is an insurance company
good or bad?  100 claims have come.  The
insurance company paid 80,
paid 90.  It is not important.  Those who did not pay,
they did not pay for it
many times because there are waiting periods.  There are a
lot of other things.  So there
is nothing much in it.  That's why we would have taken the
claim settlement ratio.  We are telling
you about the other four ratios which are more important.  The
first is the speed of claim
settlement ratio.  What is C Speed ​​of Claim
Settlement Ratio?  Meaning, if you
check how an insurance company pays the claims in the first 30 days out of all the claims received by it.
So ICICI is getting 99.94.
Aditya Birla is getting 99.90.  There
is not much difference.  Both are
performing very well in terms of
speed of claim settlement.  Next is
Claim Complaints.  There is a company, how many
complaints does it receive from claims?  Right?
This shows how many customers
are unsatisfied with the claims that are being
received by the insurance company. 14% 0.14%
in case of ICICI 0.16% in case of
Aditya Bilal both are 19-20.  Not a big
difference so nothing to worry about in both the
cases.  Incurred Claim Ratio Incurred Claim
Ratio is a ratio where we basically compare
how much an insurance company is paying as claim if it receives a premium of ₹100.  This
is a very important ratio to
understand the profitability of a company.
This also reveals whether an
insurance company is being too stingy
in paying claims.  Both things become
known.  So, if the incurred claim ratio of any insurance company is between 60 to 80%,
then it is considered a good ratio.
In case of ICI is 85.53% then it is above 80%
so it would not be called a good
ratio in our view the way we look at it.
This simply means that the insurance
company charges a lot of premium compared to
claims.  The claims are very high.  This
means that you will think that it is good.  The
insurance company is paying the claim.
But one disadvantage of this is that if the amount
goes above 80% then there are
more chances of the insurance company's premium increasing.
Because its margins remained very low.  And
if the margin remains low then anyone will take the money from us.  The
insurance company will
not pay from its own pocket.  Right?  A next
is 75 in case of Aditya Birla is 75.97%
it falls in the 60 to 80% racket.  So it's
doing very well in incurred claim ratio.
Moving on to claim rejection ratio.  This
ratio is used to measure
how many claims an insurance company rejects
in a year compared to the claims
it receives.  Right?  In this ratio Aditya
Birla gets 3.98%.  So if 100 claims come,
Aditya Birla is rejecting around four claims.  This is where it gets interesting.  The
rejection ratio of ICICI LBA is 14.11%.  This means that out of 100
claims, ICICI is rejecting more than 14 claims
and Aditya is rejecting four claims.  They are
rejecting 10 more claims
every time when we are discussing 100 claims.
So this is a very big percentage.
And this is definitely a red flag for
ICICI which has a quite high rejection
ratio which basically says that perhaps this
insurance company is
not doing the underwriting right.  It is giving plans to many customers quickly
and rejecting them at the time of claim.
Or else she is being
stingy at the time of rejection.  They are cutting claims but
not paying.  One of these two
usually happens.  So this is one red
flag that I will give to ICC for sure.
Moving on to pricing.  Understanding pricing
is obviously important.  We saw them all.
What will we get?  How will claims be received?
How will I get the service?
What benefits will be available in the product?  But how much money will it
cost brother?  That is the most important thing to
understand.  So, let's understand what is the
price of both the products.  We as usual we will do
Mr. Kumar 30 years old who is
buying a policy for himself.  His wife
and kid are one year old and basically living
in Mumbai.  10 Lay Sum Insured.  ₹13,964
in case of ICICI Avet.  ₹18,584
in case of Aditya Birla.  So the
premium of Aditya Birla is a little higher compared
to ICICI, a note has been given about it here, which
I will quickly tell you that when we
calculated the premium of Aditya Birla, the
Unlimited Care add-on in it was a
fixed add-on, we were not getting the option to remove it,
so the add-on is added in it
whereas it is not added in ICICI.
You will have to choose separately.  So that
is a difference and an air ambulance was
also added as a fixed add on,
when we calculated the premium, this
difference is around ₹4000, this could be
due to that.  Obviously, what we are
telling you here is giving an overall
understanding.  We are giving comparison
of both these products for a
standard customer.  Right?  But you will have your own medical history to determine
your personal preferences for your specific needs.
You will have your own where
you live in one location.   That can lead to
a personalized recommendation.
If you talk to our experts.  Our
experts are not call center freshers.
These are people who have real
experience, real world experience in
not only products but also in claims.
These people will basically help you with the
consultation and then generate a report which will tell
you exactly the plan that is suitable
for your needs.  Everything becomes known in it.  They
tell you everything – how much minimum sum insured you should take, which riders you should take.  And this
entire consultation is completely free of
cost.  You don't have to pay any charges for
this.  If you buy a plan then the
insurance expert obviously
gets commission from the insurance company.  But otherwise you don't have to pay even ₹1.
And this is a completely spam free
service.  It will not happen that if you
enter the number then you will start getting calls.   All that will
not happen.  These are the people who are
not sitting there to force a plan on you.  These are the
people who are sitting there to provide you service.
Those who want your claim to be paid.
Then you tell four people and they
get more business.  These are those people.  So we screen them
very delicately and very stringently and
then
bring them to our platform so that the
advisors on our platform are the
best advisors and you
get the best service.  So that was basically all that
I wanted to talk to you about the partiers,
the prying and everything.  Now the most
critical part of this video is basically
to understand the ratings of this plant.
Meaning we have reviewed a lot of plans.
We have done many things apart from these two.  There is
always this problem
that how to compare all these plans?
So what have we done?  We use ILM Research.
Use their ratings.
Which basically rates all the plans on all their
parameters.
Rates comparatively.  So we come to know
where he stands in this thing.  Plan A
vs Plan B vs C vs D
vs Whatever 150 200 Plans That
Exist in the Country.  So let's look at the
ratings of these ah two plans.
In product benefits, ICICI lm has got a rating
of 4.69 out of five, which is the
rating of ILM,
how much did it get out of five, so 4.69 out of five is
Aditya Birla getting five out of five,
meaning they are doing superlative in terms
of what they are offering to customers on the
product side, right on the product side,
this is the most superlative
product available in the market,
in customer service 4.14 in case of
ICICI Elevate 4.54 in case of
Aditya Birla.  So
Aditya Birla is leading the race in customer service also.
4.27 cases of IIC five
out of five in case of Aditya Birla in claims experience.  So
getting a five in both claims and product is a
very difficult task.  So
congratulations to Aditya Birla for being
able to do such a great job in terms of what we are
able to achieve.  Many people do it in the product.  The
product is a promise.
Right?  And claims are made, that is delivery.
Doing well in both product and delivery is a very good thing.  The overall
ratings that are coming are
4.32 in the case of ICICI LB Elevate and
4.29 in the case of Aditya Birla.  Genuinely
speaking, I am also a little
confused as to why ILM has given such a rating.  According to
me, when we talked
and what I understood till now and as per the product
benefits and claim experience,
Aditya Birla clearly I found it to be
clearly the winner in this but there is
some difference in the ratings here.  In fact,
ICI is coming in the same but higher in overall ratings.
We will put a clarification
here in the description regarding the film.
I will definitely go to make a call
immediately today. It is very late now but
I am definitely going to make a call and I will put a
question to the IM team to find out exactly why and how can
ICICI Elevate have
4.32 when Aditya Birla has got five out of five
in the product and claims. Let us
understand this a little. I will put it as a
note in the comments section. I will also make a
short video if required. Hope you
like the video. Hope you like the comparison, the
analysis and the work that we are doing. If you did then do
subscribe to us. Like, you will get
some
encouragement, you will get inspiration
and to make videos.
We keep making many such videos to explain
about products, compare products.   He
also makes short shots to
explain about a certain knowledge that exists
in the health insurance and term
insurance space.  So follow us and
subscribe to us.  We will not disappoint you
for sure.  Thank you very much.  And if you have any
questions, a small
number will come here.  If you send a message to that number via
WhatsApp, our team will connect with you and
can definitely help you in booking a consultation.  Thank you very much.